these are the heart of your system
hi ed welcome back to a new video again
a c4 90s topic and the ten 900k in
today's video we are going to delete the
CPU compare how it will work out and if
we can improve the temperatures applying
a liquid metal to the diet or between
the die and the heats better and once
we're done with everything we will
compare this CPU and the specific die
heats better size and everything to
eighth generation the ninth generation
and see what the size difference is like
he's better thickness and all those
details right now the 10 100 K is
running on a Maximus 12 extreme at five
point one gigahertz about 1.3 three volt
and that's about the maximum this
particular CPU can do it's a retail CPU
it can run 5.2 gigahertz but it needs
about 1.4 volt and at one point 4 volt
it's just getting way too warm even
though I'm running a custom water
cooling right now a 360 radiator still
5.2 gigahertz would be too much that's
why I'm running 5.1 let's just go to
Windows see how the temperatures will
look like and then we will proceed with
deleting BIOS setting wise you can see
AI overclocked to Nerissa to XMP running
40 to 66 megahertz X and P right now all
core ratio limit is set to 51 which
equals five point one gigahertz DRM
frequency 40 to 66 diggy + v RM settings
are load line calibration level 7 so
doesn't really drop down under load CPU
current capability 140 percent and then
we have CPU cache ratio at 4.8 gigahertz
fixed sipuel tidge from point three
three volt tyrion voltage one point four
five and that's it
nothing else is needed for OC very
similar to 9900 K cooling wise as I said
before 360 radiator 3 Corsair fans EK
pump everything running at about 50%
speed salaat maximum cooling performance
but it's something you would definitely
use in your own system and here the
maximum is 12 extreme I have to say it's
a quite beautiful board with a normal
EKG
just running some tubes from it and I
would say let's just run some Cinebench
or 20 and see what attempts look like
you can see the CPU voltage is dropping
down
one point three zero one point three one
world which is a very healthy video up
temperature-wise we are in the mid 80s
cinnamon score is 66 hundred point
lowest temperature is core one with 79
degrees Celsius and highest is core to
with 87 degrees Celsius everything else
is like in the mid to low 80s here we
have the blue on the table next to it
already
- deleted 9900 K and 8700 K which are
already measured yesterday we're going
to compare those in a second once we
have this one this example should also
work very nicely with the delay time a -
in general the internals and the
soldering should be quite similar to the
9900 K except for the thinner die let's
go
first insert the CPU into the daily
diamond - should still be the same just
triangle - triangle
[Music]
the indium solder is very soft therefore
even though we moved it by about three
to four millimeter in this direction IHS
is still quite firmly stuck on the die
which means we're just rotating it by
180 degree and then moved IHS back
should help to lose it
[Music]
first impression obviously CPU is
soldered and died looks similar to a
ninety nine hundred K when it comes to
the width only looks longer and the glue
around the die also looks thicker also
if we compare this on the IHS there's a
lot more glue on the air than on the
previous ninety nine hundred K I will do
some measurements and then we will be
back before we can proceed with applying
a liquid metal to the die we first have
to clean the CPU from all the glue
residues also remove all the remaining
indium from the die carefully with a
knife and then we can apply a liquid
metal as usual be careful with the edges
if you cut with a knife over the edge
like this it's very likely to break it
off just cut from the inside to outside
should be more safe
[Music]
done with the measurements and we can
compare 8700 K 9900 kN 10900 K from left
to right orientation all of them have
the triangle facing to the bottom left
what you will notice is that the not
just on 87 and 9900 K are facing upwards
while 10900 K has them facing downwards
if we compare the weight of the CPU 8700
K 4.3 gram 9900 K 5.4 gram 10900 K 5.4
gram as well that could be measurement
tolerances comparing 9900 K and 10900 K
now we are talking about the die size
all three CPUs have the same width when
it comes to the die size of them have
nine point two millimeter and the length
is different
8700 K is sixteen point seven millimeter
9900 K in nineteen point six millimeter
10900 K about ten percent longer than
the 9900 k with about twenty two point
four millimeter which also gets
confirmed if we calculate the die size
about 153 square millimeters on the 8700
K 9900 K 180 square millimeters and ten
and hundred K about two hundred and six
square millimeters quick comparison of
the PCB height 8700 K had a very thin
piece be similar to 6700 K and also 7700
K all three generations had a PCB height
of 0.87 millimeters 9900 K and also ten
nine hundred K have the same PCB height
of about 1.15 they should have the same
it's just measurement tolerance I think
comparing those numbers right here
comparing the die height that should be
the more interesting in value 8700 K
again had the same die height as 6700 K
and also 7700 K 9900 K was doubled the
die height we already analyzed this when
the CPU was released and now I thought
with the 10900 K they would maybe go
back to the original height of the 8700
K and previous CPUs with zero point four
four millimeter but they found some
in between and now the dye height is
0.58 millimeter and that's also
confirming what Intel told us in the
initial brief when Steve from gamers
Nexus asked about the dye height
difference we have about 0.3 millimeter
difference in dye height quick
comparison of the heat spreaders again
left to right 8700 k9k and 10900 k he
will straight notice that the one on the
Left doesn't have the gold plating on
the inside which is because 8700 K was
not soldered while the other two CPUs
are using a solar team aka asked him the
10900 k is physically also a little bit
different we have this 45-degree angle
on the side I'm not sure what the reason
for that is it also feels like they're
changing the IHS physically a little bit
from each generation but it doesn't seem
to have a real technical reason more -
maybe differentiate them from the
outside weight comparison also confirms
the different dye height because all of
those CPUs essentially have the same
height when it comes to the CPU itself
eventually they're 487 100 K smallest
dye height therefore the highest IHS
size and also highest weight 20 put a
6.6 gram 9900 k 20 point 2 gram and 10
100 k 22.2 gram if we just measure the
height of the IHS in the center we have
3.1 millimeter on 8700 k 2.3 millimeter
on the 9900 k and about 2.6 millimeter
on the 10 900k with the measurements we
can confirm what Intel told us in the
initial presentation that the dye got a
little bit thinner about 0.3 millimeter
and we know from grinding 9,900 case
that lowering the dye height by like 0.2
0.3 millimeter we can get a temperature
improvement of maybe like 3 to 4 degree
celsius and that's what we can probably
expect from the ten hundred K in terms
of temperature improvement you won't
really notice the difference if you
compare at n900 k to a 9900 k every cpu
has an individual temperature therefore
just three 4 degree won't really train
what you will get as your first
impression when it comes to the soldier
itself I measured a height of about 0.3
millimeter of the indium itself and
that's also the reason why we should be
able to improve the temperature by using
liquid metal because we can make the gap
even thinner maybe like 0.05 millimeter
thickness of the liquid metal layer it
will basically sit directly in between
the dye and IHS therefore we can maybe
get I don't know three four five six
seven degree more out of this we will
see I'm just going to apply liquid metal
on dye and IHS and then we'll rerun the
previous test
[Music]
Sabu's sitting back in the socket
I didn't renew the IHS just put liquid
metal in between put it back into the
socket same thermal paste reapplied the
same as profile went back into the OS I
also noted down the temperatures of our
previous run now I have room temperature
of twenty-three point zero degrees
Celsius while in the other run in today
in the afternoon we had twenty two point
five degree Celsius room temperature
shouldn't make a big difference just so
you know that factor as well see you
score 65 88 points which is pretty much
the same as the first run I opened an
old pad and put the max temperature of
the previous run next to it on this line
right here you can see what we just ran
after deleting and here we have the
temperature difference which means that
Corwin was by 5 degree Celsius colder
and it's now 74 degrees Celsius max
that's the smallest difference biggest
difference at a moment course 6 with 10
degree Celsius difference previously 85
and now 75 degree Celsius however this
is a bigger difference than what I
expected I will just rerun it and we
will do a second run to compare and see
if maximum temperature is increasing my
second run as expected the temperature
difference is a little bit smaller
simply because there is more heat still
in the water cooling a loop I ran it
after like two minutes
after the first run and on my initial
run I had like 15 minutes where I didn't
do anything on the system so it should
have been the lowest idle temperature in
the water cooling loop possible now with
from minus 4 to minus 9 degree Celsius
difference overall about 7 degrees
Celsius improvement I would say it's
kind of expected it's very much similar
to 9900 K and also previous CPUs which
were soldered temperature improvement
with liquid metal therefore nothing
unexpected 6 to 7 to 8 degree Celsius is
what you can expect if you decide to
delete your 10 900k and go for liquid
metal if you say ok
I really need the last five degree
Celsius then you can delete your ten
900k with tell Adama to pour liquid
metal on there it will work out fine
however the benefit will be quite small
don't expect that you can get two
hundred megahertz more out of your ears
if you simply because you deleted it by
the way we're also working on a direct
diaphragm it already has past
development phase it's already in
production it will work ninth gen direct
diaphragm obviously does not fit because
as you've seen previously in the last
minutes the 9900 K has a completely
different die size die height then
therefore we had to adjust to make a new
direct diaphragm I already tested
everything everything has been approved
and once it's available we will make
another video with direct die cooling
and I will give you the temperature data
to that and also obviously the link to
the direct diaphragm so much about this
video with comparison of the last three
generations when it comes to cpu sizes
and also temperature improvement with
the leading thanks for joining in and
see you next time bye
[Music]
when you're testing and wondering why
you have such high temperatures even
though you're using a 360 radiator by
the way don't worry those fans are
running with like 250 to 300 rpm that's
not the interest at all